Design patterns in java -------------------- Really important.

Design pattern helps in identify recurring problems and create a solution arround that problem.
1. Design patterns helps in creating a solution arround the problem 
2. This patterns can be re-used to be applied to any project which face this issue. As design pattern is a patterns(kind of  prob recurring)
3. Design pattern make the project structure better.

How to apply design pattern 
1. First check the design pattern from the pattern catalog which can be appled to the problem occuring in the projects 
2. In no pattern is there to solve issue. Document the issue (problem) , create a solution and keep it as a candidate pattern.
3. If the above issue keeps on coming across the projects and is getting resolved by applying above candidate pattern then that candidate pattern will be added to the pattern catalog

Types of Pattern catalog to choose pattern from .
1. GOF pattern catalog : 
	- Creational patterns : which is all related to the creation and instantiation of the class objects
	- Structural patterns : Which is all realted to the class struture
	- Behaviour patterns : which is all related to the calling heppens or communication between classes.
	
	a. Singleton Pattern : Its a creational pattern which will allow only one object to be created for the  class and shared across all the classes.
			for example : 
					case 1 : in this case singleton pattern will allow only one object of PropertyReader class to be created to save memory.
						Class 1 ----------------------|
													  |
													  PropertyReader class (which has  function to read/write values from the file) <---------------------> file
						class 2 ----------------------|
					Case 2: 
						public static Logger log = LoggerFactory.getLogger(Classname.class)
						
						Above log object singleton will be used by all the classes to log message.
						
			Ques: How to make a singleton design pattern 
			Ans : step sto follow : 
					- Create the constructor private to stop the instantiation from other classes.
					- Then create the private static variable of same class type so that we can instantiate it back .
					- then create a public static method to return the above private static class variable back . Check is added to check if private static attribute is null or not.
					
				a. lazy instantiation : with in the method . to instantiate private static attribute. PREFFERED
				b. eager instantiation : eg : private static DateUtil dateUtil = new DateUtil(); ----- on class level.
										   public static DateUtil getInstance(){
											return dateUtil;
											}
									it means we are returning the variable value only once whic is instantiated once at class level.
				c. Static block instantiation : we can instantiate with in the static block to instantiate the dateUtil variable once.
									static {
									
										 dateUtil = new DateUtil();
										}
				d. how to make the instantiaton of the private static attribute thread safe is by marking the block of code s static.
				
						synchronized keyword to mark the function thread safe .
						synchronized (DateUtil.class){ ---- block to mark piece of LOC 
						
						}
				

									
				NOTE : IN NUTSHELL MAKE SURE TO INSTANTIATE THE CLASS TYPE PRIVATE ATTRIBUTE ONLY ONCE AND RETURN IT.
					
2. JEE pattern catalog : 
	This catalog contains design patterns which are scattered across the different layers for java applications
	for example  : 
	
				Presentation layer 					Intergation layer
							|						|
							|						|
							Service Layer/Busines Layer
										|
										|
							     Data Access layer
								 
				- Presentation layers : Contains patterns which will allow users to interact with the users like UI , GUI etc .
				- integration layers : Contains patterns which will allow the Service layers / business layers to interact with other applications
				- data access layer : Patterns for DB access. Where all CRUD operations will happens.
				- Service/Business layers : which is used to transform the data and allow service to the consumer
	
	
	
	