IBM Certified Advocate - Cloud v1

Cloud computing is the delivery of on-demand computing resources over the internet on a pay-as-you-go basis; resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned among multiple users and scale up and down in response to users’ needs.

Cloud computing : is enabling on cloud feature to spin up the resource in less amount of time and less manual interventions.

	1. Ondemand - provide the resource or increase the resources on demand
	2. Broad network acces : can be accessed view any device 
	3. Resource pooling : Economies of scale . Dynamically assigned and reassigned 
	4. Rapid Elasticity : Down or up scale the resource as per th eload 
	5. Measured service  : Pay as you go : n use no billing .


1. Deployment model : 
	public : usage is shared by other company  
	private : Usage is for single organisation
	hybrid : Mix of both public and private 

2. Service model : 
	Application SAAS : direct software install
	Platform PAAS : Provide under lying infa and provide hold onto the OS as well.
	Ifra(IAAS) : prvide the underlying infra 

3. Cloud computing evolution : 

4. Flexibility , ondemand increase of theresources , access cloud from anywhere .
5. No need to worry about the underlying infra and its maintainance
6.  hosted data can be access from anywhere and from any device 
7. hardware failure doesnot results in data loss , as data redundacny , fault tolerance and disaster recovery is applicable for the damage.

Key cloud srevice provide : 
AWS 
Azure (microsoft ) 
Google cloud platform(GCP) .
Aliyun (alibaba cloud) chinese cloud.
Salesforce.


8. Business case fr cloud computing 
First create an IBM cloud account : https://courses.cognitiveclass.ai/courses/course-v1:IBMDeveloperSkillsNetwork+CC0101EN+v1/courseware/97dfd2321ab2469c9b8ebaaecf03a508/62c5ec272127473891cfc570811077a6/?child=first

9. pay-as-you-go and Spiningup the application in lower amount of time results in lower the risk for the companies to start adopting the Cloud .
	The above approach helps in avoiding huge upfront cost and maintainance of the underlying hardware even if when all or some of our apps and services are sitting idle and is not in use.
	
a. IOT Devices : internet of things : IOT is the platform powered by Cloud which is access using a smart phone of any device generating data . IOT devices helps in converting the digital data acceptable in cloud and be analyzed by the cloud back end and generate values.

case study : Maglvendon socitry in affrica using IOT devices connected to each Rhino to track their movement and ca also be warned before any one comes near to them 
Help them escape . Using these IOT devices connected to Each rhino the cloud is maintaining the dtaa count overall africa.

Note  : IN nutshell IOT devices generates data 

b. AI : Artificial intelligence 	: Now AI consumes data process and Leanr from the data generate from IOT devices . 


use flexibility / elasticity / scalable feature of cloud----------->cloud <----------  make use of the flexibility / elasticity / scalable feature of cloud
													|							|
													|							|
													IOT Devices------------------->AI			
														/\
														|
														|
														Mobile devices

C. Block chain and analytics :  Block chain is more similar to IOT . As IT devices connected to various data generating devices and send it to AI which help in learing from the event driving data generation , dysruption , error occured , . That complete set og data generated from theIOT devices will be USed by  AI to generate an analysed data sheet to allow organisation or the vendors to take supportive steps.				

Some case studies that demonstrate how the use of emerging technologies on the cloud is creating value for millions around the world.

o   The use of the Internet of Things on the cloud to combat poaching of endangered rhinos in South Africa

o   Artificial Intelligence on the cloud being leveraged to deliver unique digital experiences to millions of fans around the world by the United States Tennis Association

o   Blockchain on the cloud helping farmers reduce waste by building traceability and transparency in the food supply chain

o   The use of data analytics for driving predictive maintenance solutions for a city’s infrastructure by KONE


NOTE : CLOUD MOSTLY IS USED BECAUSE OF ITS WIDELY USED FEATURES : SCLABLE , FLIXIBLA E, PAY AS YOU GO , DISASTER RECOVERY , GLOBAL DISTIBURTION ETC 


Difference between IAAS  , PAAS and SAAS 
IAAS : In this arch the underlying srever , datacenters , cooling plant , wiring , network , power setup is maintained by the vendor. The choice of OS is users and then install the DB and etc 
PAAS : In this along with above IAAS resource , the vendor also maintained the underlying OS installed on the server.
SAAS : In this along with the above PAAS resources , the vendor also maintained the application and other pre-requisite need to run the app .

IAAS :  Maintain below resources : 
			Server devices   ------------ DCs
			Network devices	   ------------ virtualisation , api 
			storage devices    ------------ objects , block storage 

PAAS : 	Maintain below resources : 
			Server devices   ------------ DCs
			Network devices	   ------------ virtualisation , api 
			storage devices    ------------ objects , block storage 
			Operating system 
			application runtime 
			middleware 
			Apis 
			databases 

			as middleware and runtime are managed by the vendor , the developer can focus more on the app dev.
			As the data bses and runtime are mainatined by the vendor , then the user or dev have no control  over the updation of the OS . Or routine updation .

SAAS  : Maintain below resource : 
			Server devices   ------------ DCs
			Network devices	   ------------ virtualisation , api 
			storage devices    ------------ objects , block storage 
			security ----
			keep the code or the service on a centralized repo to be accessed by the user .
			
			example : email application , HRM , HCM , financial application , microsoft office.
			
		concerns : 
			Need constant network setup to access the software 
		Pros : 
			as it is SAAS , no need to maintain any IT infra 
			Storage , network etc 
			
----- Deployment model -------
Public 
private 
hybrid 			

1. Public : In this model all the resouurcse are presnet on cloud which are mainatained by the vendor and is solely responsible for maintaining the underlying infrastructure for the user's application to run . resource like : servers , storage , network , security and infrastructure all are maintained by the vendor or cloud provider . user by using the management console or UI can subscribe to these resource usage and pay as they use. Miltiple tenant and multi org 
	benefits : 
			Is benefetial for the orgs which have fluctuating storage and processing and infra need .
			On demand resource availability 
			No upfront or capital cost need to invest 
			Focus more on developing the application which need to be run on the cloud 
			We can scale up and scale down the resource as we need .
			Pay as you go subscription plans 
			pay for what you use. idle resources will not cost .
	cons : 
			low security and data sovereignty issue. As the data is present in shared resource in cloud more risk to hijacking , hacking of resource which leads to data leak and other issues.
			
2. 	Private : In this deployment model all the resources are managed on private cloud space for a single organisaton which can reside on-premises or on external cloud space .Keeping all the resources on private cloud organisation can have more control on the regulatory compliance of the apps , security patching and network security . 

		benefits : -All benefits are there which invludes easy and quick bring up of apps.
				   -Virtual private cloud (VPC) is the isolated space that is created for the user to spin their resources.
				   -Better security set up on network.
				   -Can apply compliance rules on the applications/resource which are developed for a single organisation.
				   -Easy portability of entire set up from one Data center to another as the space is not shared and is an isolated space for the org resources.
				   -User can spin up the resource like DB and other data resouce and allow the apps in public cloud to access the DB in the private clud using more secure way.
				   -can control the server OS patching , install there own software licenses .
				   
3. Hybrid cloud. : Its the best of both cloud private and public cloud. It connects the resources on-premises private cloud tp the resources in public cloud .
				-Organisations can deploy their applications which are more sensistive on private cloud and apps which are less sensistive and dynamics on public cloud . 
				-The private cloud resource can use the share space in public cloud on-demand as per their needs.
				-Portability is there as private cloud is used for more sensitive apps . like data bases and credentials storage or key storage for their apps.
				-We can port the private cloud not only to different DC but to the a new cloud providers.
				-This deployment is better then private and public model as this model will help apps running on private and public cloud connected to utilize the resource from each other without impacting the running apps on either side.
				- But it is recommended that the apps which are on-premises private cloud should utilise the resource from public cloud as pay as you go subscrption plan is there for the users.


---- Overview of Cloud infrastructure--------
1. Cloud infrastructure contains 
						1 Region-------->1 or more AZ(availability zones)----> 1 or more Data centers -----> multiple data wracks and pshysical machines.

								EaCh DC has its own Network , power supply and coopling system for the physical machines.
						Multiple region arch helps in disaster recovery .
						1 DC ----> 1 wrack ----> HyperVisors installed ------> provision VMs on that installed hypervisors . All are maintained by the Cloud provider. Except the virtual machine is provisioned by the end users.
						
2. Storage : We are by default getting local storage with each VMs spun up and Bare metal machine . But these local drives get lost when the VM is decommissioned. So we have below storage services : 
							-Both file and bloack storage are not distributed globally and have less security 
								File Storage 
								Bloack storage 
								
							- Where as the object storage is distributed globally over multiple regions .	
								Objects storage 
								
3. Networking : STN software networking.

---------------------Virtualization :------------
1. Hyper visors and Virtual machines are the core part of virtualisations 
Types of Hyper visors 
	1. type 1 : Which is also called as Bare metal hyper visors and is more frequently used hyper visors and provide less latency in network .
	2. type 2 : which is called hosted hyper visors which is less frequently used hyper v and provide more latency as compared to BM hyper v.
We can spin up multiple virtual machines on Hyper Visors and as each VM is independent from each other each VM can have different OS and can barely use the resources shared with hosted machine.

Benefits : 
		1. Lower downtime : as VMs are portable . we can shift the vm to other Hyper v running on a working Host or physicall machine . 
		2. Cost savings
		3. backup facilities 
		
Note : Hyper v is installed on Physical or host machines or a wrack and VM is installed or run on Hyper V.

- Type of VMs 
		Note : 1 and 2nd run on multi tenent mode and 3rd one runs on single tenent mode.
		Multiple tenant mode means multiple org VMs might be running on the same Hyper v on same host.
		Single tenant mode means single org VMs be running on the single hyper v on single host machine.
	1. Spot instance or transient instance or vms : these VMS are spun up in the unused space in the data center .	
		Because these instances are using the unused space and user can utilize these servers for testing and developing purposed.
		These instance can also be decommissioned by the cloud provided anytime when the space inside the DC decrease.
		So mostly sed for testing and developing purpose.
		
	2. Reserved instances : These are the VMs instance which run on the reserved space for our an year or so .
		This is more of a subscription discount scheme for the user to reserved the instance for a given period of time 
		Greater the period of reservation greater is the discount.
	3. Dedicated host : these instance run on the dedicated host or physical machine for a single organisation .
			These instances are mostly used licensing and regulatory practices to take place.


- Types of base host machines
	1. Bare Metal Severs : Which is a single tenant machine decicated to a single organisation .
		.As it is dedicated to a single organisation it is the responsibility of the org to maintain the underlying oS and provision the fix pack and 
		also do the patching on a regular basis.
		.Best suited for lcense and regulatory practices and help organisation to install a differnt vendor HYPER V on the machine which the cloud provider does not provide.
		.As it is not sharing the underlying machine resouces with other org it helps in executing high performance computing like AI , deep data learning , ERP , CRM etc which required high resource utilisation .
		.As we compare it with the multi tenant machine it is much expensive and comes along with the regulatory or daily maintance of the underlying softwares .
		.If we use multi tenant we could use the underlying resources under less cost and provides elastic scalability of the resources on pay as we go subscription.
		. BM host also provide more security as only single tenant is using the machine and no other intrusion can happen.
		
- how the underlying VMS are deployed to the cloud
			-On cloud space each space is seperated by a Virtual private network 
			-Each virtual private network contains an IP address space 10.0.0.0/32 : it means first 32 bits are same 
            -Each VPC or VPN contains subnets created from the very address apace 
			-Each subnet contains the running VMS
			-Ech Subnet contains ACLs : access control list to act as a firewall
		
		VPC
        -----------------------------------||				
			---------------   Vm1_1-------||
			subnest 1         Vm1_1-------LB||----------------------Public intenet gateway -------------------------- Internet acces ----||---------------Computers
			---------------   Vm1_1-------|                                                                                             |
			                               ||                                                                                            ||
			---------------                |                                                                                             ||
			subnet 2                       ||                                                                                            ||
			---------------                |                                                                                             ||
		                                   ||                                                                                            |
		                                   |                                                                                             ||VPN used
				|                          ||                                                                                            |
				|                          |                                                                                             ||
				|                          ||                                                                                            |
		    ---------------                |                                                                                             organisation which can |
			subnet n                       ||																							expand by connectinf via VPN
		                                   |
			---------------                ||
									       |
				                           ||
					                       |
				                           ||
		                                   |
                                           ||
                                           |
                                           ||
                                           |
		-----------------------------------|	
		
		-VPC on top of the network contains IP address and its range 
			- Subnets inside VPC -- Contains ACLs to act as a firewall 
				- Each subnet contains VMs or other resource which contains SGs to act as a security group access
				
		
- Contanerisation ()
	-Better then then native approach of Hyper v containing multiple VM utilising the underlying host resources .
	-Containers are light weight , 
	-We can scale up and scale down 
	use the shared pool of  resources 
	-These are portable 
	-Lower dowtime if the one of the container goes down . For better architecture we can use Kubernetes to bring container orchestration and results in automatic -control over killing and bring live to more containrrs.
	
- Cloud storage : 
	Four types : 
		1.Direct Storage  : This is the storage directly attached to the machine residing on the hardware wrack . A wrack contains multipe hardware machine and each hardware need OS to be stored somewhere so this storage comes into the picture . 
			One wrack -----> 3 hardware machines -----> 3 Direct storage attached to it 
			this storage is not presistent and it is ephemera lmeans it get lost once the hardware goes down or damage.
		2. File Storage (NFS storage) : network file system : This is the simple file storage which can be access in a folder structure and can be mounted toany compute node any time . it is also portable means we can de-mount and mount it to another compute node .
		3. Block Storage : This is the EBS volume we used attached to each compute node or VMs. This Storage can be persistent and non- presistent as per our choice . if we make it persistent then this storage will persist even if the compute node is deleted. And will cost as per the need.
		4. Objects Storage :This is the storage used for storing any kind of  data , it has lower IOPS then other storage devices but have elastic storage capacity that is if volument needs to be increased then it will be handle Auto by the clud.
		It is also global , means if compute mode or resourcess across the region wants to access it is doable.
		The data in object storage is accessed using an API. with a security or authentication keys
		
- File Storage : 		
	File storage also need to be mounted from a remote storage appliacnce before it can be used for the operations 
	The remote appliances are the same storage devices which can be connected to the compite node presnet in under lying DCs
	The File Storage can also be called as Network File Storage or Network Access Storage .
	The File Storage is better then the Direct storage , more resilient and have more security as the storage appliaces provide encryption at rest as well as for data in transient .
	The File storage can be attached or mounted to multiple compute node at a time .
	IOPS : Input/output operations which shows the spedd with which the data can be read and write from the file storage or disk connected to it.
	The file storage is connected to compute node using Ethernet network .
	
- Block Storage : 
	Block storage split the file into blocks ate is stored seperately in blocks.
	Block storage in similar way to be mounted to the compute node before being utilized .
	Block storage also get conncted to the compute node using a remote storage appliances 
	Block storage appliances are connected via fiber networks which are high speed network for data tranfer. Include more cost as compared to file storage.
	Block storage is connected to only one compute node one at a time.
	Block storage also provides encryption of data at rest and the data in transient.
	Block storages are mostly use in cases where high speed or high throughput data access is requred for eg : in case of data bases .
	
- Object storage:
	Object storage stores the data in buckets . 
	Objects storage unlike file storage and block storage can be used without mounting it with the compute nodes or any other resources.
	Object storage size unlike file storage and block storage need not to be provisioned initially by gicing upfront cost . Means the objects storage is infinite and can be utilized and charged per Gigabytes of data. Pay as per use.
	Objects storage is suitable for toring audio , video , images and data emiting from IOT devices.
	Objects storages are suitable for archiving the data .
	Objects storages are suitable for distributing the data on geagraphical regions and can be access via APIs for uploading and downloading the data.
	Objects storage can not be used for the data which is changing constantly in a less period of time.
  
  @Objects storage and its API	
	Objects storages have different storage tiers :
		a. Standard S3 :  in which the data is storage which subjects to more frequent access to it.
		b. Vault / archive tier : in which the data is access once or twice a year . The storage cost decrease and access cost increase.
		c. Cold Vault : in which the data is not accessed at all and is used for arhive the data . The storage cost is more less and acess cost is more and may take upto hours to access the data .
	Objects storage APIs : The standard S3 api is the RESTFUL web service and APIs  which allow GET ( download )the data and PUT(upload) the data to the objects storage.
	
- Content Delivery Network : 
	Its a feature and resource that help in distributing the data all arround the globe.
	This resource uses the response data cache which will happen in edge servers or CDN servers in location from where the user is hitting the main website server.
	
	user ----------------------->  Edge servers ----------------------------> Origin (azure web app) central us
	 <----------------------- cache the response<------------------------ 										
east asia					  Under the profile 	
							  will try to connect
								the user to the 
							  nearest region app deployed	
							  amd get the reponse

NOTE : post caching the data , when a new user sends the request the CDN will search for the nearby server as per the geagraphic and get the data from cache and send it back to the user. This will remove direct hit to main website serevr , high security and high uptime.

- Hybrid multi cloud architecture :
	In this design we are talking about different cloud providers and multi cloud arround the globe.
	A hybrid design helps in connecting the on-premises infrastructure to public cloud which can be in same geographical or differentgeo region.
	The public cloud which is connected to private on premises cloud give the architecture the feature t scale up and scale down the resource the microservices which need to face more data traffic or need to handle high data volumes.
	
- Microservices : 
	It removed the approach called the monolithic which shows a single app as a whole showing high cohesiveness to all modules.
	In this architecture the bigger servces is broken down to smaller pieces loosely coupled and communicate using the API and event streaming , message queues , kafka topic or message broker.
	
- ServerLess arch 
		Ibm cloud functions
		Azure functions
		AWS lambda 
		- Will not charged 
		- Service as a code.
		- We can run the function and pay when ever the function is called .
		- The serverless resource can scale up and scale down as per the work load
		
- Cloud native applications : these are the application that supports the microservices approach with lower dependencies on other modules.
- DevOps : Its the methodology that help `in speed up and automate the process of build , deploy , run , test and maintaining the application or env .
			It also help in providing a easier approach to share the same package app with the ops team with similar running env with in smaller period of time.
			Results in lower downtime.
			
	
- IBM cloud essentials : Which shows IBM cloud is the combination of IAAS , PAAS and SAAS .
It as 200 services/products and 60 data centers all arroud the globe .
a.IBM Console : it is similar to what we saw in AWS console and azure console which allow user to subscribe and use the service provided by IBM , Microsoft and amazon .
b.IBM Cloud Shell : it is the terminal using which the user can run the ibm cloud command or CLI command to interact with the IBM services .
c.IBM Cloud CLI : its a bundled package program which help user to install it on their local and using IBM CLOUD cli command to interact wth the IBM CLOUD services.
d. ibmcloud is distributed acrosss 6 regions acrosss the globe and 19 counteries and 60 datacenters 
e. In ibmcloud also the similar concept of Availability region -----> Availability Zones -----> data centers are presents 
 		
		
IBM cloud shell commands : 

ibmcloud --version ------------------------------ To check the IBMcloud version 
ibmcloud  resource service-instance ---------- To check all the instances of resources running on ibmcloud
ibmcloud resource service-instance (NAME|ID) [--location LOCATION] [-g RESOURCE_GROUP] [--id] [--output FORMAT] [-q, --quiet]
ibmcloud ks cluster ls ------------------------- to list all application in kubernetes cluster 

f. Account types and supports plans : 

- Account types : 
1. Lite : Its free of cost . Will not expire . Access to 40 services in ibmcloud.
2. pay-as-you-go : Its pay as per the usage of the services. Access to all IBM cloud services. Need credit card subscription. Fits best for production level scenarion or deployments 
3. Subscription : Its for the organisations which commits for a period of time. because of which they get access to all IBM cloud under discounted offers . Just like pay as you go its fits for production level deployments .

Support plan : 
1. Basic
	a. availability of support 24 *7 phone call , char etc 
	b. SLA for the incident raise by chat , phone is not there
	
2. advanced 
	a. availability of support 24 *7 phone call , char etc 
	b. SLA for the incident raise by chat , phone is  there of less then 1 hours for case severty 1 , less then 2 hours for case severty 2 ,less then 3 hours for case severty 3.
	

3. premium
	a. availability of support 24 *7 phone call , char etc 
	b. SLA for the incident raise by chat , phone is  there of less then 15 mins for case severty 1 , less then 2 hours for case severty 1 ,less then 3 hours for case severty 2.
	c. Additional support : Technical manager 
4. Billing an usage : 
		View detail information for billing as a monthly or by service category 
		Manage :---> Billing an usage ----> you can see the billing 
			Promotion : We can add the promo code for discount . This is not available in Free tier account.
			Spending notification : We can set alerts and threashhold on the spending and get an alert evrytime for it. This is not available in Free tier account
5. Cost estimater Tool : 
		in catalog : 
			We can add the corresponding service post selectig it from the catalog and selecting its usage and capacity .
			We can add multiple services to the cost estimator and can download the report as a pdf for showcase.
6. Access policy : IAM 
		- User and access group 
			users : user is anyone which become part of the ibmcloud account by mean of ibm console or by using the IBM cloud api.
				A user can have View , editor , manager .
			Access group : its a the collection of the users which make the access classification and degree of access assigned easily .
						Example : biiling access group , developer access group , IT access group , etc.
		- Service and resources 
			1. Services are the app categories available in the IBM cloud catalog , Like VM , data base ,etc 
			2. Resources : Are the running instances of the Services like , Dev-vm , sita-vm and prod-vm  are instances of VM service. Cloudant which is the instanceof the database services.
			3. Resource groups : which is the collection of running instances of the IBM cloud service . RS is set while creating a resource from a service.
				just like we did in Azure 
		- Access policy
	
				The combination of 
				SUBJECT to have particular ROLE over a TARGET(RESOURCE OR RESOURCE GROUP )
				-----------------------------------------
				SUBJECT 	ROLE 		TARGET
				++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
				user		editor		resource 
				accessgrp	manager		resource group 
				--------------------------------------------
				
		- how to create a api key and authenticate userself and invite other user to your account.		
			steps : 		
				manage ---> IAM ----> create new API key ----> save and download 
				open IBM cli on your terminal 
					Command : ibmcloud login --apikey  keydownloaded 
			
				users ----> invite users --> enter the email 
				We can also add them in access group wit below role :---->
					Admin
					Admin billing 
					User 
				we can add the permission related to it .
					No access 
					View only
					Basic User 
					Super User
					
7. Virtual Server Offerings : 
	a. Virtual servers  : these are the classic virtual machine to run with the base OS to run our apps and act as a IAAS 
		Type of vms 
			1. public which is prsnt on the host machines used the other orgs , mainly multi tenent 
			2. Dedicated : which is used for single tenent for own use and no noisy neighbours .
			3. Transient : which are provisioned using he usused space of host machine . The cheapest but get decomission if the space is collected back by cloud providers.
			4. Reserved : which is used the org to reserved the host machines for a period of time and et discouted offers .
	b. Bare Metal  : Which is used to run IO intensive activitie.and can be provisioned in any IBM Dc arround the globe 
		Blling types : 
			hourly 
			monthly 
			1 year 
			3 year contracts
		performance is better then the VM classic
			
	c. Power System : To spin up power system with OS eg  : AI 
		Flexible compute services 
		machine types 
			e880 
			s922
		images : 
			AIX 
			IBM i
			bring our own linux
		performance is better then the VM classic	
	d. Hyper protect : IBM linux spin up 
		Deploy to specific DCs 
		provide security which is better then other virtual system offerings
-----------------------------------------Create SSH key --------------------------------
 https://courses.cognitiveclass.ai/courses/course-v1:IBMDeveloperSkillsNetwork+CC0103EN+v3/courseware/5b35991d4f3d4da2aca82ade77525a66/f85d162b6af3471c856c073802e63a1a/?child=first
 Create an SSH key
This step requires the user to create an SSH key. Here are some suggestions based on your environment:

Most Mac and Linux platforms will have the ssh-keygen command available by default and can follow the steps below.
The IBM Cloud Shell is a Linux based container and can also be used. However the keys will be deleted in an hour.
Windows users can use Putty and follow these steps.
To create an SSH, copy the command below, substituting in your email address. This creates a new SSH key, using the provided email as a label.

ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "your_email@example.com"
When you're prompted to "Enter a file in which to save the key," press Enter. This accepts the default file location.

> Enter a file in which to save the key (/home/you/.ssh/id_rsa): [Press enter]
At the prompt, type a secure passphrase. It can be empty.

> Enter passphrase (empty for no passphrase): [Type a passphrase]
> Enter same passphrase again: [Type passphrase again]
Output the public key by using the cat command.

cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
The key should look like the example below.

ssh-rsa AAAAB3NA...nJrhG8Ap6Uw== stevemar@foo.com				
-----------------------------------------Create SSH key --------------------------------

8. Block ,File Storage and Cloud backup :

Block storage : which can be attached or mount only to one compute node at a time 
				it uses iSCI .
				It can be attached or deattached easily from the compute node.
				If the VM is removed then the EBS volume persist for a longer period of time and can cost for sitting idle .
				We have to manually delete the EBS volume .
				Used for highely intensive work loads.
				The IOPS in relatively high in EBS volume then the other file storage 
				provides encryption of data at rest 
				
File Storage : which is used file storage system 
			   It uses the NFS (network file storage).
			   This storage can be mounted to more then one compute resources.
			   The IOPS is low in NFS
			   This storage persists the data stored in NFS volume.
			   As a shared resource or storage it does not get deleted .
			   

Cloud backup : Which involves backing up the data in stored volumes.
			   That include Geo-redundancy which will copy the data in two geo-graphical regions across the globe .
			   
Cloud object storage : 
					protect data using IAM policy 
					Provide 4 tier : 
						Smart : in which we don't know about the accessibility of data 
						Standard : which is standard and is used for frequently access data.
						vault : which is used to store data which is infrequently access.
						cold vault  : which is used for archival of the data .
					It is used to store any kind of unstructured data .
					Post storing the objects there is no tree structure and folder structure.
					The objects are stored in bucket .
					SDKs and S3 compatible APIs are used to access the objects .
					By default the accessibility of objects are private .
					is not used or referred in high intensive thework load.
					
9. Network services. : 

CIS : Cloud internet service which uses cloudflare service for internet facing applications 
	  This provides many benefits like : 
			Global load balancers 
			DNS service (Domain name space )
			TLS layer for security 
			Rate Limiter : which will availability detect the incoming traffic and help is maintaing load over the server.
			DDOS protection : which is a protection agained malacious hacker attacks , which comes in the form of fake traffic bombarded on the web serevr.
			Smart routing : which is usedfor routing the incoming traffic 
			WAF
			caching : which is used to cache the response or request . redices latency and improve performance /
			
    Network services : 
		1. Direct Link : Create direct link between remote networks and IBM cloud. 
					Secure dedicated network .
					used for creating multi cloud .
					5gbps of speed can be achived 
					
		2. CDN : A higly distributed platform of servers that helps minimize servers.
			  based on Akamai.
			  Smart at scaling : auto scale service global 
			  Secure 
			  Global distribution of data
			  optimize dynamic content 
			  usage based pricgin , pay as you used.
		3. Load balancer : used to reduce traffic .
					public and private load balancer 
					health check 
					backend pool of IPS 
					Front end IPS.					
		4. Gateway :which act as a virtual router 
		5. Firewall : which is used for traffoc filteration process.
		6. VPN : which is used to maintain adedicated network link between the device with its own organisation network .
		7. Subnets & IPs : which provide more ip address.
		8. VLAN : which identifies the ip address and allow multiple devices to reside on the same physical machine.
		

						
10 Diff b/W gen1 and gen2 VPC
A VPC is a an isolated private network space inside a public cloud .
A VPC provide multiple subnets and IPs address attached to each subnet .
   Diff Gen 1 VPC and Gen 2 VPC 
   
Gen1 : 
	availability in all 6 regions 
	upto to 16gbps speed 
	provider manage securoty and BYOK 
	
Gen2 : 
	availability in all 5 regions 
	upto to 80gbps speed 
	provider manage security only 
	
11. VMWare solutions : 
Why to bring VMware on cloud?
 -because it will help us in saving the underlying infra cost , Dv cost and the corresponding cost of cooling and networking facilties.
 -Provide encryption of data on rest and in transient .
 -Complience 
 -Rapid setup of system 

VmWare solutions type : 

VMWare deciated solution : 
		Which is a Bare metal solutions and is dedicated to one client only . Is a single tenent solutions 
			- vCenter type of this is fully automated , VMware softwaredefined datacenters,
			- vSphere is a manual configuration  for network , storage and addons.
			- both solutions allow to bring own license or IBM provided licenses.
			- much costlier then the shared one
VMware solutions Shared 		
			- We have Ondemad and reserved instances in VMware shared solution.
			- this is hosted to the shared cloud .
			- best for temp migration of solutions 
			- Up and running in smalll period of time .
			
	products like : 
			VEEAM : whic his used to back up VM on the machine 
			ZERTO : whch is used for disaster recovery process.
			